# Data Acquisition Based Car Health Monitoring System
This repository will contain detail about our final year project thesis entitled as "Data Acquisition based Car Health Monitoring System".
## Abstract
The world has made a remarkable progress in the field of technology and transportation. Modern vehicles are equipped with latest sensors and microcontrollers such as Engine Control Unit (ECU) which collects data from different sensors of vehicles and improve vehicle health but still the ratio of accidents is high. One major cause of it is lack of transparency between driver and vehicles. As most of Drivers are non-technical people so they cannot understand the complexity of these sensors. So, they go the service stations who can do fraud with them by providing wrong information about their vehicles and make them fool.
So, the Objective of this Project is to develop a system which can provide information about vehicle as well as alert the driver in case of any danger or fault in the vehicle and also help them safe from any fraud by providing information in a user-friendly way. The system will consist of a microcontroller to monitor temperature, humidity, gas leakage and to detect accident by using accelerometer, it also consist of  an OBD adapter to provide information about vehicle internal systems and also to get Diagnostic Trouble Codes (DTCs) which can be used to alert the driver about any fault in any of these systems by interacting it with android application. The data will also be stored in Firebase to be used by different organizations for research purposes and to make this system better in Future.

### Keywords
OBD II,  DTC, accelerometer, android studio,  Firebase, Microcontroller, Bluetooth
